ADMIN DASHBOARD  
1. HTML Structure Overview  
Purpose:  
Creates an admin dashboard layout with a header, sidebar navigation, main content area, and footer. It includes a toggle option for switching to a dark theme.  

Key Elements:  

<input type="checkbox" id="darkTheme" class="theme-toggle">  
This hidden checkbox acts as the dark mode toggle.  

<header>  
This displays the dashboard title and the dark theme label with a custom checkbox.  

<nav class="sidebar">  
This is the sidebar menu with navigation links: Home, Users, Settings.  

<main>  
This is the main content area for the admin.  

<footer>  
This displays copyright information.  

2. CSS Styling Breakdown  
ELEMENT: body  
Purpose: Defines the global font and removes the default browser margins.  

Properties & Effects:  

margin: 0; → This removes the default white space around the page.  

font-family: Arial, sans-serif; → This sets a clean, sans-serif font style.  

ELEMENT: .container  
Purpose: Uses a grid layout to arrange the header, sidebar, main content, and footer.  

Properties & Effects:  

display: grid; → This enables the CSS Grid layout.  

grid-template-areas → This assigns areas for the header, sidebar, main, and footer.  

grid-template-columns: 200px 1fr; → The sidebar is fixed at 200px, and the main content takes the remaining space.  

min-height: 100vh; → This fills the full screen height.  

ELEMENT: .theme-toggle  
Purpose: Hides the default checkbox.  

Effect: display: none; → This allows for a custom checkbox style in .theme-label.  

ELEMENT: header  
Purpose: Styles the top navigation area.  

Properties & Effects:  

background: #4CAF50; → This sets a green background for branding.  

color: white; → This provides white text for contrast.  

display: flex; justify-content: space-between; align-items: center; → This positions the title on the left and the toggle on the right.  

ELEMENT: .theme-label & .checkbox-box  
Purpose: Creates a clickable label for dark mode.  

Properties & Effects:  

.checkbox-box → This is a 14×14px square with a white border that simulates a checkbox.  

cursor: pointer; → This shows that the label is clickable.  

ELEMENT: .sidebar  
Purpose: This is the left-side navigation menu.  

Properties & Effects:  

background: #f0f0f0; → This sets a light gray background.  

list-style-type: disc; → This adds bullet points for the menu.  

Hover: Links will be underlined when hovered over for interactivity.  

ELEMENT: main  
Purpose: Displays the dashboard’s main content.  

Properties: padding: 20px; → This adds space around the content.  

ELEMENT: footer  
Purpose: This serves as the bottom information bar.  

Properties & Effects:  

background: #4CAF50; color: white; → This matches the header styling.  

text-align: center; → This centers the text.  

3. DARK THEME FUNCTIONALITY  
Mechanism:  
This uses the :checked CSS selector to apply dark mode styles when .theme-toggle is checked.  

Effects When Checked:  

Backgrounds for the header, sidebar, main, and footer switch to dark (#222 / #333).  

Sidebar links change to light gray (#ddd).  

The checkbox box fills with white to show it is active.  

LEARNING OUTCOMES:  
How to create a CSS Grid-based admin layout.  

How to custom style a checkbox for a theme toggle.  

How to use the :checked sibling selector for light/dark theme switching.  

How to design a responsive, consistent UI using basic CSS.